Access is as much
about authorization
as it is about authentication.
One of the most
important functions
of access controls is how they
assign responsibility for
certain systems and processes.
Next up in our exploration of
access control systems are
the mechanisms of authorization.
These protocols actually
work closely together with
authentication
technologies. While one
validates who the user is,
the other determines what
they're allowed to do.
Let's take a look at the
next part of the authentication,
authorization, and
accounting framework
that protects
private information.
Earlier, we learned about
the principle of
least privilege.
Authorization is linked
to the idea that
access to information only
lasts as long as needed.
Authorization systems are also
heavily influenced by this idea
in addition to another
important security principle,
the separation of duties.
Separation of duties is
the principle that users
should not be given
levels of authorization
that will
allow them to misuse a system.
Separating duties
reduces the risk of
system failures and inappropriate
behavior from users.
For example, a person
responsible for providing
customer service
shouldn't also be
authorized to rate
their own performance.
In this position,
they could easily neglect
their duties while
continuing to give themselves
high marks with no oversight.
Similarly, if one person was
authorized to develop and
test a security system,
they are much more likely to
be unaware of its weaknesses.
Both the principle of least
privilege and the concept of
separating duties apply
to more than just people.
They apply to all systems
including networks,
databases, processes, and
any other aspect of
an organization.
Ultimately,
authorization depends
on a system or user's role.
When it comes to securing
data over a network,
there are a couple
of frequently used
access controls that you
should be familiar with:
HTTP basic auth and OAuth.
Have you ever wondered what
the HTTP in web
addresses stood for.
It stands for hypertext
transfer protocol,
which is how communications
are established over network.
HTTP uses what is
known as basic auth,
the technology used to establish
a user's request to
access a server.
Basic auth works by sending
an identifier every time
a user communicates
with a web page.
Some websites still use basic
auth to tell whether or
not someone is authorized to
access information on that site.
However, their protocol
is considered to be
vulnerable to attacks
because it transmits
usernames and
password openly
over the network.
Most websites today
use HTTPS instead,
which stands for hypertext
transfer protocol secure.
This protocol doesn't expose
sensitive information,
like access credentials, when
communicating over the network.
Another secure
authentication technology
used today is OAuth.
OAuth is an open-standard
authorization protocol
that shares designated
access between applications.
For example, you can
tell Google that it's
okay for another website
to access your profile
to create an account.
Instead of requesting
and sending
sensitive usernames and
passwords over the network,
OAuth uses API tokens to verify
access between you and
a service provider.
An API token is a small block of
encrypted code that contains
information about a user.
These tokens contain
things like your identity,
site permissions, and more.
OAuth sends and receives
access requests using
API tokens by passing them from
a server to a user's device.
Let's explore what's going
on behind the scenes.
When you authorize
a site to create
an account using
your Google profile,
all of Google's usual login
protocols are still active.
If you have multi-factor
authentication
enabled on your account,
and you should,
you'll still have the security
benefits that it provides.
API tokens minimize
risks in a major way.
These API tokens serve as
an additional layer of
encryption that helps to
keep your Google
password safe in
the event of a breach
on another platform.
Basic auth and OAuth are
just a couple of examples
of authorization tools
that are designed with
the principles of
least privilege and
separation of duty in mind.
There are many other
controls that help limit
the risk of unauthorized
access to information.
In addition to
controlling access,
it's also important to monitor it.
In our next video, we'll focus on
the third and final part
of the authentication,
authorization, and
accounting framework.